so I'm going to show you how to
spatchcock a chicken now batch cooking
is one of those things that the end
result looks quite complicated but it's
so simple to do so we've got a nice
whole chicken here now the good thing
about spatchcocking is it creates a
really even thickness of meat so whereas
this would take maybe you know an hour
and a half in the oven spatchcocking
means you can cook it in about 40
minutes so to start what you want to do
is just find the breast side of your
chicken and you're going to turn it onto
your breast side and what you need for
this is a pair of good scissors what you
want to do is you're going to cut out
the backbone and so it takes a bit of
welly but it should be alright so again
down the side following the shape of the
nose straight down you can have a look
inside the chicken if your bit word to
make sure you're going in the right line
and just crack through those little rib
bones all the way to the end of the
chicken so again I've just cutting down
the other side just the same as I did on
that side you've got this middle
backbone now you can see that's coming
out through these ribs again right to
the end coming out the neck and there we
go cut off any excess bits of flesh that
are holding it together and that's it so
that's the only bit you've taken out
it's not very nice but you can see there
we've still got the little ribs in on
the side that's what you've cut through
now what you want to do is flip it back
onto its open side where you've just cut
and you're just going to push down using
the heel of your hand and you can hear
the ribs breaking but you just want to
flatten them flatten them out so what
you're aiming for is a nice even layer
so you want something where this is the
same thickness as the best there so it's
it's going to cook like a chicken brush
you're going to be able to cook it on
one side and then flip it onto the other
side so that's nice and flat now think
you've got about the same thickness
throughout and to secure it you just use
a couple of skewers this is so it
doesn't sort of move about on the once
you start cooking it you don't
to kind of seize and flip the legs and
things you want to keep it nice and flat
so I'm going to start at the breasts and
just skewer through the meat so I've
come out here and I'm going into the
thigh just like through the skin there
there we go and then I'm going to do one
the other way to just just to secure it
and that's all you need to do through
there try and pinch a bit more of that
flesh on this one there we go through
there keep the legs tucked in so you can
see we've got about an inch thickness
now what you want to do is marinate this
you can put nice oils herbs yogurt lemon
juice things like that and then cook
this on a barbecue or grill and that's
how you prepare spatchcocked chicken